Hypnosis is used to deal with pain in two ways.
One is very intense, dramatic situations
like an operation or dentistry.
A lot of dentists are trained in hypnotherapy
to help you manage that intense pain
while having a procedure.
There are places around the world
where you can have hypnosis instead of anaesthesia,
which sounds really hardcore, but
there is a huge efficacy rate,
so there must be something in it.
It's also used in a more subtle way
to deal with chronic, ongoing pain.
It's the basis of mindfulness in fact,
which was developed at the
University of Massachusetts
just to help people reframe their
relationship with pain.
So instead of becoming tense or
uptight about ongoing pain
you actually look at, 'can I
cope with it in this moment'?
And you deal with it on a moment
by moment basis
and that really has a huge efficacy
rate in reducing people's
attitudes to pain and
improving their lives.